we all seem to be striving for maximum
productivity and minimizing
procrastination
and if you find it hard to turn off your
instagram and get your project written
up
you do not stand alone but what if i
told you that there is a simple way to
make procrastination and putting tasks
off for later
benefit you and ultimately becoming more
productive and getting that task done
now i don't really think that there is
one
magical bullet solution to all of your
procrastination problems
but i do think that stacking up little
tips and tricks here and there can
really compound together to make a
significant difference to how you work
and what your output is
in this video i will be talking about a
simple trick that i use to make me more
likely to complete
tasks that i really really don't want to
do i particularly like discussing the
connection between motivation and
procrastination
because there seems to be this generally
accepted consensus
that those people who procrastinate must
not have enough motivation
and where i disagree with this is that
if you use procrastination right
you might actually be fueling your
motivation to get things done
the reason that this works is that our
brains love cliffhangers
you might have experienced this when you
just have to watch that next episode of
a show
or you really really want to find out
who won this program that you watched
two months ago
or when you have to watch my videos to
the very end neuroscientists and
psychologists have
really explored this phenomenon of
taking a break from work and they've
come up with different names to refer
to our brain's reaction to it it's
called things as
attention residue cliff hangers and my
personal favorites
long-term potentiation but they all
basically describe the same thing
you start a task and then you just let
it be intentionally
you create a cliffhanger for yourself
and this will make you subconsciously
really really want to finish that task
now if you're thinking that this is not
going to work the same way as it did for
game of thrones
for your high school essay you're
actually quite wrong because they had
quite
boring tasks given to these participants
in experiments participants in these
studies were twice
more likely to recall unfinished tasks
as they were
finished ones and even once they were
done they were twice more likely to
remember the tasks that were initially
interrupted
our brains really really favor
cliffhangers so by forcing ourselves or
let's be honest by letting ourselves
stop a task
we are actually fueling our motivation
to want to get that task done
and increasing the amount of attention
our brain is paying to that task
so practically the way that i implement
this is that if you have a task that you
really really do not want to do but you
have to get
done don't procrastinate before you've
even touched it
but do one small step and stop then for
example if you have an essay to write
just take a piece of paper
write down the title of the essay and
leave it on your dash if you have a
project to complete
create a folder on your computer with
the name of that project and just
leave it there open if you have a book
that you have to read
buy it and put it on your bedside table
next to you if you have a long
complicated email that you want to send
create a draft with just the sender's
name and the subject title you might
actually develop a need to just
want to get this thing finished and if
you're going to procrastinate anyway
you might as well do it a few seconds
after you've started i've honestly found
that this has really really helped me
in organizing tasks that i just really
don't want to do
hopefully if you try this out in the
long term it might be one of those small
things that helps you be more productive
overall as always i hope this was
informative thank you so much for
watching i hope you have a lovely rest
of the day